[Music]
the first world war starts with
literally horses and carriages and ends
with tanks so it's the moment where
modern war you could argue begins from
the very beginning I felt this movie
should be told in real time every step
of the journey breathing every breath
with his men fell integral and there is
no better way to tell his story than
with one continuous shot
[Applause]
[Music]
from the first moment I'm talk to Sam
about the idea as a one-shot movie I
knew it was going to be really immersive
it's meant to make you feel that you are
in the trenches with these characters
the film in itself is a slice of time
these two young men get sent on a
mission to deliver a message to stop an
attack so they've got to cross into
enemy territory on a race against time
to deliver a message that will save 1600
lives and the camera never ever comes
away from the two characters there's
always that sort of get out of jail card
that you have with a movie well you know
we might be able to cut around there so
we must take that scene out
that's not possible on this film the
dance of the camera and the mechanics
all have to be in sync with what the
actors doing when you achieve that it's
really beautiful and exhilarating
sometimes you have a camera being
carried by an operator hooked onto a
wire
and the wire carries it across more land
and it's unhooked again that operator
runs with it then steps onto a small G
which carries him another 400 yards and
he steps off it again and goes round the
corner
[Music]
this film does not take place in a
series of interiors this is endless
exteriors
no location ever repeats so you're
constantly moving through landscapes
being such a exterior movie we're very
dependent on the light and the weather
and we kind of realized well for a start
you can't really light it because you
know if you were running down a trench
and turning around 360 degrees there's
nowhere to put a light anywhere and
because we were shooting in story order
we have to shoot in cloud to get the
continuity from scene to scene so some
mornings when the Sun would be out and
we couldn't shoot so we would rehearse
were rehearsing and it would be writing
around everyone with their eyes up in
the sky a Shriner see how long did it
take for the Sun to move behind the
cloud in as soon as it comes over you've
got this five minute window
everyone would be like come on go go go
so you are also in the lap of the gods
there's like a piece of theater every
tank
once he starts account stuff if
something goes wrong you just have to
keep going
until you actually see it on a screen
you don't really realize how immersive
it is and how that technique kind of
draws you into it
[Music]
for me engagement it's very important
and that is behind the way in which we
decided to shoot this film I wanted
people to understand how difficult it
was for these men
and the nature of that is behind
everything
[Music]